technical_documentation/03_TECHNOLOGY_STACK.md, before:

# 03 - Technology Stack

> **Genesis Workforce Management Platform - Technology Stack**
 
---
 
## System Stack Overview
 
```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Frontend [Frontend Layer]
        React[React 19]
        TS[TypeScript]
        Vite[Vite Build Tool]
        Tailwind[Tailwind CSS 4]
    end

    subgraph Backend [Backend Layer]
        Java[Java 21 LTS]
        Spring[Spring Boot 3.4]
        Sec[Spring Security]
        Feign[Feign Client]
    end

    subgraph Data [Data Layer]
        Postgres[(PostgreSQL 12+)]
        Flyway[Flyway Migrations]
        Hikari[HikariCP Pooling]
    end

    subgraph Infra [Infrastructure]
        Docker[Docker Containers]
        Lightsail[AWS Lightsail]
        Cognito[AWS Cognito]
        SES[AWS SES]
    end

    Frontend -->|REST API| Backend
    Backend -->|JPA/Hibernate| Data
    Backend -->|Auth/Notifications| Infra
    
    style Frontend fill:#e3f2fd,stroke:#1565c0
    style Backend fill:#e8f5e9,stroke:#2e7d32
    style Data fill:#fff3e0,stroke:#e65100
    style Infra fill:#f3e5f5,stroke:#7b1fa2
```
 
---

## Backend Technology Stack

### Runtime Environment
- **Language**: Java 21 (LTS)
- **Framework**: Spring Boot 3.4.0
- **Build Tool**: Maven 3.9+

### Core Dependencies

#### Spring Framework
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
    <version>3.4.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-jpa</artifactId>
    <version>3.4.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-security</artifactId>
    <version>3.4.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-actuator</artifactId>
    <version>3.4.0</version>
</dependency>
```

#### Database
- **Database**: PostgreSQL 12+
- **Driver**: `org.postgresql:postgresql`
- **Connection Pool**: HikariCP (bundled with Spring Boot)
- **Migration**: Flyway 9.x

#### Authentication & Security
- **AWS Cognito**: User authentication and management
- **JWT**: Token-based authentication
- **Spring Security**: Authorization and endpoint protection

#### HTTP Client
- **Feign**: Declarative HTTP client for external services
- **Version**: Spring Cloud OpenFeign

#### Utilities
- **Lombok**: Reduce boilerplate code
- **Jackson**: JSON processing
- **SLF4J + Logback**: Logging

### Data Processing Dependencies
- **Apache POI**: Excel file processing (employee import)
- **JSONB**: PostgreSQL JSON support for flexible fields

---

## Database Technology

### PostgreSQL 12+
**Why PostgreSQL?**
- ACID compliance for critical workforce data
- JSONB support for flexible employee attributes
- Advanced indexing for performance
- Mature ecosystem and tooling

**Key Features Used**:
- JSONB columns for `additional_fields`, `schedule_data`
- Foreign key constraints for referential integrity
- Indexes on frequently queried columns
- Soft delete pattern with `is_active`, `deleted_at`

---

## Infrastructure & Deployment

### Containerization
- **Docker**: Application containerization
- **Dockerfile**: Located in project root

### Cloud Services (AWS)
- **AWS Cognito**: User authentication
- **AWS SES**: Email notifications (configured)
- **AWS SQS/SNS**: Message queue (configured)

### Deployment Platform
- **Staging**: Digital Ocean (Droplets)
- **Production**: AWS Lightsail (Scalable Instances)
- **Containerization**: Docker-based deployment (Source → Docker → Staging → Prod)

---

## Frontend Technology Stack

- **Framework**: React 19.1.0
- **Build Tool**: Vite 6.x (with SWC)
- **Language**: TypeScript ~5.8
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS 4.x
- **UI Components**: Radix UI, Headless UI
- **Routing**: @tanstack/react-router
- **State/Data**: @tanstack/react-query
- **Forms**: React Hook Form + Zod

---

## Development Tools

### Version Control
- **Git**: Source control
- **GitHub**: Repository hosting

### Build & Dependency Management
- **Maven**: Java dependency management and build
- **Maven Wrapper**: Included for consistent builds

### Testing
- **JUnit 5**: Unit testing framework
- **Spring Boot Test**: Integration testing
- **Mockito**: Mocking framework

### Code Quality
- **Lombok**: Code generation
- **SLF4J**: Logging abstraction

---

## Monitoring & Observability

### Application Monitoring
- **Spring Boot Actuator**: Health checks, metrics
- **Micrometer**: Metrics collection (HikariCP integration)

### Logging
- **Logback**: Logging implementation
- **SLF4J**: Logging facade
- **MDC**: Contextual logging (requestId, userId)

### External Monitoring

- Prometheus?
- Grafana?
- ELK Stack?

---

## External Integrations

### Optimization Engine
- **Protocol**: HTTP/REST
- **Client**: Feign
- **Timeout**: 45 minutes
- **Retry**: Disabled

### AWS Services
- **Cognito**: User pool management
- **SES**: Email delivery
- **SQS/SNS**: Message queue (configured, not actively used)

---

## Technology Decisions

### Why Spring Boot 3.4.0?
- Virtual threads for improved concurrency
- Native compilation support (GraalVM)
- Latest security patches
- OAuth 2.1 support

### Why Java 21?
- LTS release with long-term support
- Virtual threads (Project Loom)
- Pattern matching improvements
- Performance enhancements

### Why PostgreSQL over NoSQL?
- ACID compliance for workforce data
- Complex joins for reporting
- JSONB for flexibility where needed
- Mature tooling and ecosystem

### Why Feign over RestTemplate?
- Declarative HTTP client
- Less boilerplate code
- Better integration with Spring Cloud
- Easier to test and mock

### Why AWS Cognito?
- Managed authentication service
- SOC 2, HIPAA, GDPR compliant
- MFA support out of the box
- Scales automatically

---

## Version Matrix

| Component | Version | Notes |
|-----------|---------|-------|
| Java | 21 (LTS) | Required |
| Spring Boot | 3.4.0 | Core framework |
| PostgreSQL | 12+ | Database |
| Maven | 3.9+ | Build tool |
| Docker | 20.10+ | Containerization |
| AWS Cognito | Latest | Authentication |

---

## Next Steps

1. **Review** [04_BACKEND_SPECIFICATIONS.md](04_BACKEND_SPECIFICATIONS.md) for detailed backend architecture
2. **Provide** frontend technology stack details
3. **Confirm** deployment platform and monitoring tools

---

Commit message:

docs: expand diagram explanations with detailed breakdowns

technical_documentation/03_TECHNOLOGY_STACK.md, after:

# 03 - Technology Stack

> **Genesis Workforce Management Platform - Technology Stack**
 
---
 
## System Stack Overview
 
```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Frontend [Frontend Layer]
        React[React 19]
        TS[TypeScript]
        Vite[Vite Build Tool]
        Tailwind[Tailwind CSS 4]
    end

    subgraph Backend [Backend Layer]
        Java[Java 21 LTS]
        Spring[Spring Boot 3.4]
        Sec[Spring Security]
        Feign[Feign Client]
    end

    subgraph Data [Data Layer]
        Postgres[(PostgreSQL 12+)]
        Flyway[Flyway Migrations]
        Hikari[HikariCP Pooling]
    end

    subgraph Infra [Infrastructure]
        Docker[Docker Containers]
        Lightsail[AWS Lightsail]
        Cognito[AWS Cognito]
        SES[AWS SES]
    end

    Frontend -->|REST API| Backend
    Backend -->|JPA/Hibernate| Data
    Backend -->|Auth/Notifications| Infra
    
    style Frontend fill:#e3f2fd,stroke:#1565c0
    style Backend fill:#e8f5e9,stroke:#2e7d32
    style Data fill:#fff3e0,stroke:#e65100
    style Infra fill:#f3e5f5,stroke:#7b1fa2
```

> **Diagram Explanation**: This flowchart visualizes the complete technology stack, showing how a user request flows from the visual interface down to the database and infrastructure.

**Step-by-Step Flow**:
1.  **Frontend Layer (The Interface)**: The user interacts with the web app built in **React 19** and styled with **Tailwind CSS**.
2.  **REST API**: Actions (like "Get Schedule") are sent as HTTP requests to the Backend.
3.  **Backend Layer (The Brain)**: **Spring Boot 3.4** running on **Java 21** receives the request. **Spring Security** checks if the user is allowed to perform the action.
4.  **Data Layer (The Memory)**: The backend uses **JPA** to talk to the **PostgreSQL** database, ensuring data is saved or retrieved safely.
5.  **Infrastructure (The Tools)**: Side-tasks like sending emails (AWS SES) or logging in (AWS Cognito) are handled by external AWS services.

---

## Backend Technology Stack

### Runtime Environment
- **Language**: Java 21 (LTS)
- **Framework**: Spring Boot 3.4.0
- **Build Tool**: Maven 3.9+

### Core Dependencies

#### Spring Framework
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
    <version>3.4.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-jpa</artifactId>
    <version>3.4.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-security</artifactId>
    <version>3.4.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-actuator</artifactId>
    <version>3.4.0</version>
</dependency>
```

#### Database
- **Database**: PostgreSQL 12+
- **Driver**: `org.postgresql:postgresql`
- **Connection Pool**: HikariCP (bundled with Spring Boot)
- **Migration**: Flyway 9.x

#### Authentication & Security
- **AWS Cognito**: User authentication and management
- **JWT**: Token-based authentication
- **Spring Security**: Authorization and endpoint protection

#### HTTP Client
- **Feign**: Declarative HTTP client for external services
- **Version**: Spring Cloud OpenFeign

#### Utilities
- **Lombok**: Reduce boilerplate code
- **Jackson**: JSON processing
- **SLF4J + Logback**: Logging

### Data Processing Dependencies
- **Apache POI**: Excel file processing (employee import)
- **JSONB**: PostgreSQL JSON support for flexible fields

---

## Database Technology

### PostgreSQL 12+
**Why PostgreSQL?**
- ACID compliance for critical workforce data
- JSONB support for flexible employee attributes
- Advanced indexing for performance
- Mature ecosystem and tooling

**Key Features Used**:
- JSONB columns for `additional_fields`, `schedule_data`
- Foreign key constraints for referential integrity
- Indexes on frequently queried columns
- Soft delete pattern with `is_active`, `deleted_at`

---

## Infrastructure & Deployment

### Containerization
- **Docker**: Application containerization
- **Dockerfile**: Located in project root

### Cloud Services (AWS)
- **AWS Cognito**: User authentication
- **AWS SES**: Email notifications (configured)
- **AWS SQS/SNS**: Message queue (configured)

### Deployment Platform
- **Staging**: Digital Ocean (Droplets)
- **Production**: AWS Lightsail (Scalable Instances)
- **Containerization**: Docker-based deployment (Source → Docker → Staging → Prod)

---

## Frontend Technology Stack

- **Framework**: React 19.1.0
- **Build Tool**: Vite 6.x (with SWC)
- **Language**: TypeScript ~5.8
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS 4.x
- **UI Components**: Radix UI, Headless UI
- **Routing**: @tanstack/react-router
- **State/Data**: @tanstack/react-query
- **Forms**: React Hook Form + Zod

---

## Development Tools

### Version Control
- **Git**: Source control
- **GitHub**: Repository hosting

### Build & Dependency Management
- **Maven**: Java dependency management and build
- **Maven Wrapper**: Included for consistent builds

### Testing
- **JUnit 5**: Unit testing framework
- **Spring Boot Test**: Integration testing
- **Mockito**: Mocking framework

### Code Quality
- **Lombok**: Code generation
- **SLF4J**: Logging abstraction

---

## Monitoring & Observability

### Application Monitoring
- **Spring Boot Actuator**: Health checks, metrics
- **Micrometer**: Metrics collection (HikariCP integration)

### Logging
- **Logback**: Logging implementation
- **SLF4J**: Logging facade
- **MDC**: Contextual logging (requestId, userId)

### External Monitoring

- Prometheus?
- Grafana?
- ELK Stack?

---

## External Integrations

### Optimization Engine
- **Protocol**: HTTP/REST
- **Client**: Feign
- **Timeout**: 45 minutes
- **Retry**: Disabled

### AWS Services
- **Cognito**: User pool management
- **SES**: Email delivery
- **SQS/SNS**: Message queue (configured, not actively used)

---

## Technology Decisions

### Why Spring Boot 3.4.0?
- Virtual threads for improved concurrency
- Native compilation support (GraalVM)
- Latest security patches
- OAuth 2.1 support

### Why Java 21?
- LTS release with long-term support
- Virtual threads (Project Loom)
- Pattern matching improvements
- Performance enhancements

### Why PostgreSQL over NoSQL?
- ACID compliance for workforce data
- Complex joins for reporting
- JSONB for flexibility where needed
- Mature tooling and ecosystem

### Why Feign over RestTemplate?
- Declarative HTTP client
- Less boilerplate code
- Better integration with Spring Cloud
- Easier to test and mock

### Why AWS Cognito?
- Managed authentication service
- SOC 2, HIPAA, GDPR compliant
- MFA support out of the box
- Scales automatically

---

## Version Matrix

| Component | Version | Notes |
|-----------|---------|-------|
| Java | 21 (LTS) | Required |
| Spring Boot | 3.4.0 | Core framework |
| PostgreSQL | 12+ | Database |
| Maven | 3.9+ | Build tool |
| Docker | 20.10+ | Containerization |
| AWS Cognito | Latest | Authentication |

---

## Next Steps

1. **Review** [04_BACKEND_SPECIFICATIONS.md](04_BACKEND_SPECIFICATIONS.md) for detailed backend architecture
2. **Provide** frontend technology stack details
3. **Confirm** deployment platform and monitoring tools

---
