technical_documentation/06_DATABASE_SPECIFICATIONS.md, before:

# Technical Specifications

> **Genesis Workforce Management Platform - Database Specifications**

## Table of Contents
- [Data Model](#data-model)
- [API Standards](#api-standards)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Logging & Observability](#logging--observability)
- [Shared Utilities](#shared-utilities)

---

## Data Model

### Entity Relationship Diagram

The Genesis data model is organized around a hierarchical multi-tenant structure:

```mermaid
erDiagram
    Company ||--o{ Branch : "owns"
    Branch ||--o{ Department : "contains"
    Department ||--o{ Employee : "employs"
    Department ||--o{ Shift : "defines"
    Department ||--o{ Schedule : "creates"
    Department ||--o{ DemandForecast : "forecasts"
    Department ||--o{ Rule : "configures"
    
    Employee ||--o{ EmployeeLeaveAvailability : "requests"
    Employee }o--|| EmployeeRole : "has"
    Employee }o--|| CognitoCreationJob : "tracks sync"
    
    Schedule ||--o{ ScheduleData : "contains"
    Shift ||--o{ ShiftTimeBlock : "composed of"
    Rule ||--o{ RuleAnswer : "answered by"
    
    Company {
        bigint id PK
        string name
        string registration_number UK
        boolean has_completed_onboarding
        timestamp created_at
        timestamp updated_at
    }
    
    Branch {
        bigint id PK
        bigint company_id FK
        string name
        string code
        string branch_type
        timestamp created_at
    }
    
    Department {
        bigint id PK
        bigint branch_id FK
        string name
        string code
        bigint head_of_dept_id FK
        timestamp created_at
    }
    
    Employee {
        bigint id PK
        bigint department_id FK
        string cognito_sub UK
        string employee_code UK
        string email_address
        string phone_number
        string first_name
        string last_name
        bigint employee_role_id FK
        boolean is_active
        jsonb on_planned_leave
        jsonb additional_fields
        timestamp created_at
        timestamp updated_at
    }
    
    Schedule {
        bigint id PK
        bigint department_id FK
        string schedule_name
        date start_date
        date end_date
        string status
        jsonb schedule_data
        timestamp created_at
    }
```

### Core Entities

#### 1. Company
**Purpose**: Root of the multi-tenant hierarchy. Represents an organization using the platform.

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK): Auto-incrementing primary key
- `name` (VARCHAR): Company name
- `registration_number` (VARCHAR, UNIQUE): Business registration number
- `has_completed_onboarding` (BOOLEAN): Onboarding status flag

**Relationships**:
- One-to-Many with `Branch`

**Use Cases**:
- Multi-tenant data isolation
- Company-level reporting
- Subscription management

---

#### 2. Branch
**Purpose**: Physical or logical location within a company (e.g., store, office, region).

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `company_id` (BIGINT, FK → Company)
- `name` (VARCHAR): Branch name
- `code` (VARCHAR): Unique branch identifier
- `branch_type` (VARCHAR): Type of branch (e.g., "HEADQUARTERS", "RETAIL")

**Relationships**:
- Many-to-One with `Company`
- One-to-Many with `Department`
- One-to-Many with `Employee`

---

#### 3. Department
**Purpose**: Organizational unit within a branch. The primary scheduling unit.

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `branch_id` (BIGINT, FK → Branch)
- `name` (VARCHAR): Department name (e.g., "Sales", "Operations")
- `code` (VARCHAR): Department code
- `head_of_dept_id` (BIGINT, FK → Employee): Department manager

**Relationships**:
- Many-to-One with `Branch`
- One-to-Many with `Employee`, `Schedule`, `Shift`, `Rule`, `DemandForecast`

**Business Logic**:
- Departments are the scope for schedule generation
- Rules and demand forecasts are department-specific

#### 4. Employee (Detailed Specification)
**Purpose**: Staff member record. Links to AWS Cognito for authentication.

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `department_id` (BIGINT, FK → Department)
- `cognito_sub` (VARCHAR(255), UNIQUE): AWS Cognito user ID
- `employee_code` (VARCHAR(50), UNIQUE): Internal employee identifier
- `email_address` (VARCHAR(255)): Email for login
- `phone_number` (VARCHAR(20)): Contact number
- `first_name`, `last_name` (VARCHAR(255)): Name fields
- `employee_role_id` (BIGINT, FK → EmployeeRole): Job role
- `role_proficiency` (BOOLEAN, Default: false): Proficiency indicator
- `is_part_time` (BOOLEAN, Default: false): Employment status
- `end_of_probation` (BOOLEAN, Default: false): Probation flag
- `availability` (VARCHAR(255)): Availability description
- `is_active` (BOOLEAN, Default: true): Active status
- `on_planned_leave` (JSONB): Leave dates in JSON format
- `additional_fields` (JSONB): Extensible custom fields

**Data Import Specification (Excel Mapping)**:

> **Note**: Column headers are case-insensitive and ignore spaces/underscores (e.g., "First Name", "firstname", "First_Name" are treated as identical).

| Excel Header | Mapped Entity Field | Required | Data Type/Validation |
|--------------|---------------------|----------|----------------------|
| `First Name` | `firstName` | **Yes** | Text (`min: 2`, `max: 100`) |
| `Last Name` | `lastName` | **Yes** | Text (`min: 2`, `max: 100`) |
| `Phone Number` | `phoneNumber` | **Yes** | Text (E.164 preferred) |
| `Email Address` | `emailAddress` | **Yes** | Valid Email |
| `Branch` | *(Resolved to ID)* | **Yes** | Name of existing Branch |
| `Department` | *(Resolved to ID)* | **Yes** | Name of existing Department |
| `Role` | *(Resolved to ID)* | **Yes** | Name of existing Role |
| `Role Proficiency` | `roleProficiency` | **Yes** | `['Yes', 'No']` (Mapped to Boolean) |
| `Is Part Time` | `isPartTime` | **Yes** | `['Yes', 'No']` (Mapped to Boolean) |
| `End of Probation` | `endOfProbation` | No | `['Yes', 'No']` (Default: 'No') |

**Processing Logic**:
1.  **Normalization**: Headers are normalized (lowercase, no spaces).
2.  **Validation**: Missing required columns throws `ExcelParseException`.
3.  **Resolution**: `Branch`, `Department`, and `Role` names are stored temporarily (`_branchName`, etc.) and resolved to database IDs during strict processing; invalid names will cause row failure.


**Relationships**:
- Many-to-One with `Department`, `EmployeeRole`
- One-to-Many with `EmployeeLeaveAvailability`


**Special Features**:
- **Cognito Integration**: `cognito_sub` links to AWS Cognito user pool
- **JSONB Fields**: Flexible schema for custom attributes
- **Audit Trail**: `created_at`, `updated_at` timestamps

---

#### 5. Schedule
**Purpose**: Generated work schedule for a department over a date range.

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `department_id` (BIGINT, FK → Department)
- `schedule_name` (VARCHAR): Descriptive name
- `start_date`, `end_date` (DATE): Schedule period
- `status` (VARCHAR): Lifecycle status (PENDING, PROCESSING, COMPLETED, FAILED, APPROVED)
- `schedule_data` (JSONB): Full schedule result from optimization engine

**Lifecycle States**:
```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> PENDING: Schedule created
    PENDING --> PROCESSING: Sent to engine
    PROCESSING --> COMPLETED: Engine returns result
    PROCESSING --> FAILED: Engine error
    COMPLETED --> APPROVED: Manager approves
    COMPLETED --> REJECTED: Manager rejects
    APPROVED --> [*]
    REJECTED --> [*]
    FAILED --> [*]
```

---

#### 6. Shift
**Purpose**: Template for work shifts (e.g., "Morning Shift", "Night Shift").

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `department_id` (BIGINT, FK → Department)
- `shift_name` (VARCHAR): Shift name
- `shift_type` (VARCHAR): Type (FULL_TIME, PART_TIME, etc.)
- `time_blocks` (JSONB): Array of time blocks (start/end times)

**Example Time Blocks**:
```json
[
  {"start": "09:00", "end": "13:00"},
  {"start": "14:00", "end": "18:00"}
]
```

---

### Data Patterns

#### Audit Fields
All entities include standard audit columns:
```sql
created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
updated_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
```

#### Soft Delete
Most entities support soft deletion:
```sql
is_active BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE
deleted_at TIMESTAMP NULL
```

#### JSONB Usage
JSONB columns provide schema flexibility:
- `Employee.on_planned_leave`: Leave dates
- `Employee.additional_fields`: Custom attributes
- `Schedule.schedule_data`: Full optimization result
- `Shift.time_blocks`: Shift time ranges

---

## API Standards

### Request/Response Envelope

All API responses use a consistent wrapper: `ApiResponseDTO<T>`

```java
public record ApiResponseDTO<T>(
    Boolean success,
    T data,
    String message,
    LocalDateTime timestamp
) {}
```

#### Success Response Example
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": {
    "id": 42,
    "firstName": "John",
    "lastName": "Doe",
    "emailAddress": "john.doe@example.com",
    "departmentName": "Sales",
    "branchName": "New York",
    "companyName": "Acme Corp",
    "isActive": true
  },
  "message": "Employee retrieved successfully",
  "timestamp": "2026-01-30T16:00:00"
}
```

#### Error Response Example
Uses RFC 7807 Problem Details:
```json
{
  "type": "about:blank",
  "title": "Not Found",
  "status": 404,
  "detail": "Employee with ID 999 not found",
  "instance": "/api/v1/employees/999"
}
```

### RESTful Conventions

| HTTP Method | URL Pattern | Purpose | Success Status |
|-------------|-------------|---------|----------------|
| `GET` | `/api/v1/{resource}` | List all (paginated) | 200 OK |
| `GET` | `/api/v1/{resource}/{id}` | Get by ID | 200 OK |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/{resource}` | Create new | 201 Created |
| `PUT` | `/api/v1/{resource}/{id}` | Update existing | 200 OK |
| `DELETE` | `/api/v1/{resource}/{id}` | Delete (soft delete) | 204 No Content |

### Pagination

Standard pagination parameters:
- `page` (int, default: 0): Zero-indexed page number
- `size` (int, default: 10): Items per page
- `sortBy` (string, default: varies): Field to sort by
- `sortDirection` (string, default: "ASC"): "ASC" or "DESC"

**Example Request**:
```
GET /api/v1/employees?page=0&size=20&sortBy=lastName&sortDirection=ASC
```

**Paginated Response**:
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": {
    "content": [ /* array of items */ ],
    "page": 0,
    "size": 20,
    "totalElements": 145,
    "totalPages": 8,
    "last": false
  },
  "message": "Employees retrieved successfully",
  "timestamp": "2026-01-30T16:00:00"
}
```

---

## Error Handling

### Exception Hierarchy

```mermaid
graph TD
    Exception[java.lang.Exception] --> RuntimeException
    RuntimeException --> BaseException[Custom Base Exceptions]
    
    BaseException --> ResourceNotFoundException
    BaseException --> ValidationException
    BaseException --> ExternalServiceException
    BaseException --> DatabaseException
    
    ResourceNotFoundException --> EmployeeNotFoundException
    ResourceNotFoundException --> ScheduleNotFoundException
    
    ValidationException --> InvalidParameterException
    ValidationException --> ConstraintViolationException
```

### Global Exception Handler

The `GlobalExceptionHandler` catches all exceptions and converts them to RFC 7807 Problem Details.

**Key Handlers**:
1. `@ExceptionHandler(ResourceNotFoundException.class)` → 404 Not Found
2. `@ExceptionHandler(MethodArgumentNotValidException.class)` → 400 Bad Request (validation)
3. `@ExceptionHandler(RuntimeException.class)` → 500 Internal Server Error
4. `@ExceptionHandler(AsyncRequestTimeoutException.class)` → 504 Gateway Timeout

**Example Handler**:
```java
@ExceptionHandler(ResourceNotFoundException.class)
public ResponseEntity<ProblemDetailsDTO> handleResourceNotFound(
    ResourceNotFoundException ex,
    HttpServletRequest request
) {
    ProblemDetailsDTO problem = new ProblemDetailsDTO(
        "about:blank",
        "Not Found",
        404,
        ex.getMessage(),
        request.getRequestURI()
    );
    return ResponseEntity.status(404).body(problem);
}
```

---

## Logging & Observability

### LogAspect (AOP Logging)

The `LogAspect` automatically logs all service and controller method executions.

**Features**:
- **Request ID Generation**: Unique 8-character ID for each request
- **MDC Context**: Populates Mapped Diagnostic Context with `requestId`, `userId`, `httpMethod`, `endpoint`
- **Execution Timing**: Logs method duration
- **User Context**: Extracts user ID from JWT token
- **HTTP Context**: Captures HTTP method and endpoint for web requests

**Pointcuts**:
```java
@Pointcut("execution(public * com.resetrix.genesis..services..*(..))")
public void serviceMethods() {}

@Pointcut("within(@org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController *)")
public void controllerMethods() {}
```

**Log Output Example**:
```
2026-01-30 16:00:00 [A1B2C3D4] [user-123] - Entering EmployeeService.createEmployee()
2026-01-30 16:00:01 [A1B2C3D4] [user-123] - Exiting EmployeeService.createEmployee() - Duration: 1234ms
```

### MDC Fields

| Field | Description | Example |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `requestId` | Unique request identifier | `A1B2C3D4` |
| `userId` | Cognito user ID (sub claim) | `user-123` |
| `httpMethod` | HTTP method | `POST` |
| `endpoint` | Request path | `/api/v1/employees` |

---

## Shared Utilities

### ValidationHelper

Centralized validation for common parameters:

```java
// Validate pagination
ValidationHelper.validatePaginationParameters(page, size);

// Validate sort direction
Sort.Direction direction = ValidationHelper.parseSortDirection("ASC");

// Validate ID
ValidationHelper.validateId(employeeId, "Employee");

// Validate sort field
ValidationHelper.validateSortBy(sortBy, "firstName", "lastName", "emailAddress");
```

### RepositoryHelper

Standardized entity retrieval with error handling:

```java
// Find by ID or throw ResourceNotFoundException
Employee employee = RepositoryHelper.findByIdOrThrow(
    employeeRepository, 
    id, 
    Employee.class
);

// Find by UUID or throw
Employee employee = RepositoryHelper.findByUuidOrThrow(
    employeeRepository, 
    uuid, 
    Employee.class
);
```

---

## Next Steps

- [MODULES.md](MODULES.md) - Detailed module documentation
- [OPERATIONS.md](OPERATIONS.md) - Deployment and configuration
- [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design and patterns


---

Commit message:

docs: expand diagram explanations with detailed breakdowns

technical_documentation/06_DATABASE_SPECIFICATIONS.md, after:

# Technical Specifications

> **Genesis Workforce Management Platform - Database Specifications**

## Table of Contents
- [Data Model](#data-model)
- [API Standards](#api-standards)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Logging & Observability](#logging--observability)
- [Shared Utilities](#shared-utilities)

---

## Data Model

### Entity Relationship Diagram

The Genesis data model is organized around a hierarchical multi-tenant structure:

```mermaid
erDiagram
    Company ||--o{ Branch : "owns"
    Branch ||--o{ Department : "contains"
    Department ||--o{ Employee : "employs"
    Department ||--o{ Shift : "defines"
    Department ||--o{ Schedule : "creates"
    Department ||--o{ DemandForecast : "forecasts"
    Department ||--o{ Rule : "configures"
    
    Employee ||--o{ EmployeeLeaveAvailability : "requests"
    Employee }o--|| EmployeeRole : "has"
    Employee }o--|| CognitoCreationJob : "tracks sync"
    
    Schedule ||--o{ ScheduleData : "contains"
    Shift ||--o{ ShiftTimeBlock : "composed of"
    Rule ||--o{ RuleAnswer : "answered by"
    
    Company {
        bigint id PK
        string name
        string registration_number UK
        boolean has_completed_onboarding
        timestamp created_at
        timestamp updated_at
    }
    
    Branch {
        bigint id PK
        bigint company_id FK
        string name
        string code
        string branch_type
        timestamp created_at
    }
    
    Department {
        bigint id PK
        bigint branch_id FK
        string name
        string code
        bigint head_of_dept_id FK
        timestamp created_at
    }
    
    Employee {
        bigint id PK
        bigint department_id FK
        string cognito_sub UK
        string employee_code UK
        string email_address
        string phone_number
        string first_name
        string last_name
        bigint employee_role_id FK
        boolean is_active
        jsonb on_planned_leave
        jsonb additional_fields
        timestamp created_at
        timestamp updated_at
    }
    
    Schedule {
        bigint id PK
        bigint department_id FK
        string schedule_name
        date start_date
        date end_date
        string status
        jsonb schedule_data
        timestamp created_at
    }
```

> **Diagram Explanation**: This Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) illustrates the strict hierarchy of the platform.

**Key Relationships**:
1.  **Company ➔ Branch**: A Company is the top-level tenant and "owns" multiple Branches (One-to-Many).
2.  **Branch ➔ Department**: Each Branch contains distinct Departments (e.g., Sales, Warehouse).
3.  **Department ➔ Employee**: Employees are assigned to a single Department, which acts as their scheduling unit.
4.  **Department ➔ Schedule**: Schedules are created *per department*, not per branch or company.

### Core Entities

#### 1. Company
**Purpose**: Root of the multi-tenant hierarchy. Represents an organization using the platform.

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK): Auto-incrementing primary key
- `name` (VARCHAR): Company name
- `registration_number` (VARCHAR, UNIQUE): Business registration number
- `has_completed_onboarding` (BOOLEAN): Onboarding status flag

**Relationships**:
- One-to-Many with `Branch`

**Use Cases**:
- Multi-tenant data isolation
- Company-level reporting
- Subscription management

---

#### 2. Branch
**Purpose**: Physical or logical location within a company (e.g., store, office, region).

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `company_id` (BIGINT, FK → Company)
- `name` (VARCHAR): Branch name
- `code` (VARCHAR): Unique branch identifier
- `branch_type` (VARCHAR): Type of branch (e.g., "HEADQUARTERS", "RETAIL")

**Relationships**:
- Many-to-One with `Company`
- One-to-Many with `Department`
- One-to-Many with `Employee`

---

#### 3. Department
**Purpose**: Organizational unit within a branch. The primary scheduling unit.

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `branch_id` (BIGINT, FK → Branch)
- `name` (VARCHAR): Department name (e.g., "Sales", "Operations")
- `code` (VARCHAR): Department code
- `head_of_dept_id` (BIGINT, FK → Employee): Department manager

**Relationships**:
- Many-to-One with `Branch`
- One-to-Many with `Employee`, `Schedule`, `Shift`, `Rule`, `DemandForecast`

**Business Logic**:
- Departments are the scope for schedule generation
- Rules and demand forecasts are department-specific

#### 4. Employee (Detailed Specification)
**Purpose**: Staff member record. Links to AWS Cognito for authentication.

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `department_id` (BIGINT, FK → Department)
- `cognito_sub` (VARCHAR(255), UNIQUE): AWS Cognito user ID
- `employee_code` (VARCHAR(50), UNIQUE): Internal employee identifier
- `email_address` (VARCHAR(255)): Email for login
- `phone_number` (VARCHAR(20)): Contact number
- `first_name`, `last_name` (VARCHAR(255)): Name fields
- `employee_role_id` (BIGINT, FK → EmployeeRole): Job role
- `role_proficiency` (BOOLEAN, Default: false): Proficiency indicator
- `is_part_time` (BOOLEAN, Default: false): Employment status
- `end_of_probation` (BOOLEAN, Default: false): Probation flag
- `availability` (VARCHAR(255)): Availability description
- `is_active` (BOOLEAN, Default: true): Active status
- `on_planned_leave` (JSONB): Leave dates in JSON format
- `additional_fields` (JSONB): Extensible custom fields

**Data Import Specification (Excel Mapping)**:

> **Note**: Column headers are case-insensitive and ignore spaces/underscores (e.g., "First Name", "firstname", "First_Name" are treated as identical).

| Excel Header | Mapped Entity Field | Required | Data Type/Validation |
|--------------|---------------------|----------|----------------------|
| `First Name` | `firstName` | **Yes** | Text (`min: 2`, `max: 100`) |
| `Last Name` | `lastName` | **Yes** | Text (`min: 2`, `max: 100`) |
| `Phone Number` | `phoneNumber` | **Yes** | Text (E.164 preferred) |
| `Email Address` | `emailAddress` | **Yes** | Valid Email |
| `Branch` | *(Resolved to ID)* | **Yes** | Name of existing Branch |
| `Department` | *(Resolved to ID)* | **Yes** | Name of existing Department |
| `Role` | *(Resolved to ID)* | **Yes** | Name of existing Role |
| `Role Proficiency` | `roleProficiency` | **Yes** | `['Yes', 'No']` (Mapped to Boolean) |
| `Is Part Time` | `isPartTime` | **Yes** | `['Yes', 'No']` (Mapped to Boolean) |
| `End of Probation` | `endOfProbation` | No | `['Yes', 'No']` (Default: 'No') |

**Processing Logic**:
1.  **Normalization**: Headers are normalized (lowercase, no spaces).
2.  **Validation**: Missing required columns throws `ExcelParseException`.
3.  **Resolution**: `Branch`, `Department`, and `Role` names are stored temporarily (`_branchName`, etc.) and resolved to database IDs during strict processing; invalid names will cause row failure.


**Relationships**:
- Many-to-One with `Department`, `EmployeeRole`
- One-to-Many with `EmployeeLeaveAvailability`


**Special Features**:
- **Cognito Integration**: `cognito_sub` links to AWS Cognito user pool
- **JSONB Fields**: Flexible schema for custom attributes
- **Audit Trail**: `created_at`, `updated_at` timestamps

---

#### 5. Schedule
**Purpose**: Generated work schedule for a department over a date range.

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `department_id` (BIGINT, FK → Department)
- `schedule_name` (VARCHAR): Descriptive name
- `start_date`, `end_date` (DATE): Schedule period
- `status` (VARCHAR): Lifecycle status (PENDING, PROCESSING, COMPLETED, FAILED, APPROVED)
- `schedule_data` (JSONB): Full schedule result from optimization engine

**Lifecycle States**:
```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> PENDING: Schedule created
    PENDING --> PROCESSING: Sent to engine
    PROCESSING --> COMPLETED: Engine returns result
    PROCESSING --> FAILED: Engine error
    COMPLETED --> APPROVED: Manager approves
    COMPLETED --> REJECTED: Manager rejects
    APPROVED --> [*]
    REJECTED --> [*]
    FAILED --> [*]
```

> **Diagram Explanation**: This State Diagram shows the lifecycle of a Schedule from creation to approval.

**State Transitions**:
1.  **Pending**: You just clicked "Create". It's a placeholder.
2.  **Processing**: The system is currently talking to the AI Engine.
3.  **Completed**: The AI Engine finished successfully. You can now see the shifts.
4.  **Approved/Rejected**: A manager reviews the AI's work and makes a final decision.

---

#### 6. Shift
**Purpose**: Template for work shifts (e.g., "Morning Shift", "Night Shift").

**Key Fields**:
- `id` (BIGINT, PK)
- `department_id` (BIGINT, FK → Department)
- `shift_name` (VARCHAR): Shift name
- `shift_type` (VARCHAR): Type (FULL_TIME, PART_TIME, etc.)
- `time_blocks` (JSONB): Array of time blocks (start/end times)

**Example Time Blocks**:
```json
[
  {"start": "09:00", "end": "13:00"},
  {"start": "14:00", "end": "18:00"}
]
```

---

### Data Patterns

#### Audit Fields
All entities include standard audit columns:
```sql
created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
updated_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
```

#### Soft Delete
Most entities support soft deletion:
```sql
is_active BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE
deleted_at TIMESTAMP NULL
```

#### JSONB Usage
JSONB columns provide schema flexibility:
- `Employee.on_planned_leave`: Leave dates
- `Employee.additional_fields`: Custom attributes
- `Schedule.schedule_data`: Full optimization result
- `Shift.time_blocks`: Shift time ranges

---

## API Standards

### Request/Response Envelope

All API responses use a consistent wrapper: `ApiResponseDTO<T>`

```java
public record ApiResponseDTO<T>(
    Boolean success,
    T data,
    String message,
    LocalDateTime timestamp
) {}
```

#### Success Response Example
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": {
    "id": 42,
    "firstName": "John",
    "lastName": "Doe",
    "emailAddress": "john.doe@example.com",
    "departmentName": "Sales",
    "branchName": "New York",
    "companyName": "Acme Corp",
    "isActive": true
  },
  "message": "Employee retrieved successfully",
  "timestamp": "2026-01-30T16:00:00"
}
```

#### Error Response Example
Uses RFC 7807 Problem Details:
```json
{
  "type": "about:blank",
  "title": "Not Found",
  "status": 404,
  "detail": "Employee with ID 999 not found",
  "instance": "/api/v1/employees/999"
}
```

### RESTful Conventions

| HTTP Method | URL Pattern | Purpose | Success Status |
|-------------|-------------|---------|----------------|
| `GET` | `/api/v1/{resource}` | List all (paginated) | 200 OK |
| `GET` | `/api/v1/{resource}/{id}` | Get by ID | 200 OK |
| `POST` | `/api/v1/{resource}` | Create new | 201 Created |
| `PUT` | `/api/v1/{resource}/{id}` | Update existing | 200 OK |
| `DELETE` | `/api/v1/{resource}/{id}` | Delete (soft delete) | 204 No Content |

### Pagination

Standard pagination parameters:
- `page` (int, default: 0): Zero-indexed page number
- `size` (int, default: 10): Items per page
- `sortBy` (string, default: varies): Field to sort by
- `sortDirection` (string, default: "ASC"): "ASC" or "DESC"

**Example Request**:
```
GET /api/v1/employees?page=0&size=20&sortBy=lastName&sortDirection=ASC
```

**Paginated Response**:
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": {
    "content": [ /* array of items */ ],
    "page": 0,
    "size": 20,
    "totalElements": 145,
    "totalPages": 8,
    "last": false
  },
  "message": "Employees retrieved successfully",
  "timestamp": "2026-01-30T16:00:00"
}
```

---

## Error Handling

### Exception Hierarchy

```mermaid
graph TD
    Exception[java.lang.Exception] --> RuntimeException
    RuntimeException --> BaseException[Custom Base Exceptions]
    
    BaseException --> ResourceNotFoundException
    BaseException --> ValidationException
    BaseException --> ExternalServiceException
    BaseException --> DatabaseException
    
    ResourceNotFoundException --> EmployeeNotFoundException
    ResourceNotFoundException --> ScheduleNotFoundException
    
    ValidationException --> InvalidParameterException
    ValidationException --> ConstraintViolationException
```

### Global Exception Handler

The `GlobalExceptionHandler` catches all exceptions and converts them to RFC 7807 Problem Details.

**Key Handlers**:
1. `@ExceptionHandler(ResourceNotFoundException.class)` → 404 Not Found
2. `@ExceptionHandler(MethodArgumentNotValidException.class)` → 400 Bad Request (validation)
3. `@ExceptionHandler(RuntimeException.class)` → 500 Internal Server Error
4. `@ExceptionHandler(AsyncRequestTimeoutException.class)` → 504 Gateway Timeout

**Example Handler**:
```java
@ExceptionHandler(ResourceNotFoundException.class)
public ResponseEntity<ProblemDetailsDTO> handleResourceNotFound(
    ResourceNotFoundException ex,
    HttpServletRequest request
) {
    ProblemDetailsDTO problem = new ProblemDetailsDTO(
        "about:blank",
        "Not Found",
        404,
        ex.getMessage(),
        request.getRequestURI()
    );
    return ResponseEntity.status(404).body(problem);
}
```

---

## Logging & Observability

### LogAspect (AOP Logging)

The `LogAspect` automatically logs all service and controller method executions.

**Features**:
- **Request ID Generation**: Unique 8-character ID for each request
- **MDC Context**: Populates Mapped Diagnostic Context with `requestId`, `userId`, `httpMethod`, `endpoint`
- **Execution Timing**: Logs method duration
- **User Context**: Extracts user ID from JWT token
- **HTTP Context**: Captures HTTP method and endpoint for web requests

**Pointcuts**:
```java
@Pointcut("execution(public * com.resetrix.genesis..services..*(..))")
public void serviceMethods() {}

@Pointcut("within(@org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController *)")
public void controllerMethods() {}
```

**Log Output Example**:
```
2026-01-30 16:00:00 [A1B2C3D4] [user-123] - Entering EmployeeService.createEmployee()
2026-01-30 16:00:01 [A1B2C3D4] [user-123] - Exiting EmployeeService.createEmployee() - Duration: 1234ms
```

### MDC Fields

| Field | Description | Example |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| `requestId` | Unique request identifier | `A1B2C3D4` |
| `userId` | Cognito user ID (sub claim) | `user-123` |
| `httpMethod` | HTTP method | `POST` |
| `endpoint` | Request path | `/api/v1/employees` |

---

## Shared Utilities

### ValidationHelper

Centralized validation for common parameters:

```java
// Validate pagination
ValidationHelper.validatePaginationParameters(page, size);

// Validate sort direction
Sort.Direction direction = ValidationHelper.parseSortDirection("ASC");

// Validate ID
ValidationHelper.validateId(employeeId, "Employee");

// Validate sort field
ValidationHelper.validateSortBy(sortBy, "firstName", "lastName", "emailAddress");
```

### RepositoryHelper

Standardized entity retrieval with error handling:

```java
// Find by ID or throw ResourceNotFoundException
Employee employee = RepositoryHelper.findByIdOrThrow(
    employeeRepository, 
    id, 
    Employee.class
);

// Find by UUID or throw
Employee employee = RepositoryHelper.findByUuidOrThrow(
    employeeRepository, 
    uuid, 
    Employee.class
);
```

---

## Next Steps

- [MODULES.md](MODULES.md) - Detailed module documentation
- [OPERATIONS.md](OPERATIONS.md) - Deployment and configuration
- [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design and patterns


---
