technical_documentation/02_MODULES/me/01_OVERVIEW.md, before:

# Me Module

| Attribute     | Details                                       |
| :------------ | :-------------------------------------------- |
| **Namespace** | `com.horaion.app.modules.me`                  |
| **Status**    | 🟢 Stable                                     |
| **Criticality** | **High** (Primary Context for Frontend)       |
| **Dependencies** | Auth, Employee, Department, Notification      |

## Executive Summary

The **Me Module** is the "Personal Context" layer of the application.

Instead of asking "Get details for Employee #123", the frontend simply asks "Who am I?". The Me Module interprets the authentication token, identifies the user, and returns their specific context (Profile, Permissions, Notifications, Assignments).

{% hint style="success" %}
**Tip / Success:**
**BFF Pattern**: This module acts as a "Backend for Frontend" aggregator. It stitches together data from 4-5 different services into a single, cohesive response optimized for the initial app load.
{% endhint %}

## Core Capabilities

1.  **Identity Resolution**: Securely mapping `Cognito SUB` -> `Employee ID`.
2.  **Context Aggregation**: Fetching Primary Department, Active Role, and Permissions in one go.
3.  **Self-Service**: Allow users to view their own Leave Requests and Notifications.

## Hierarchy & Data Flow

```mermaid
graph TD
    Client[Frontend App] --> |GET /me| MeController
    
    subgraph "Context Resolution"
        MeController --> |1. Get Token ID| Auth[Security Context]
        MeController --> |2. Find Identity| Emp[Employee Repo]
        MeController --> |3. Get Perms| Perms[Permission Svc]
        MeController --> |4. Get Alerts| Notif[Notification Svc]
    end
    
    MeController --> |Aggregate| Response[MeResponse]
```

## Security Design

The primary goal of this module is to prevent **Insecure Direct Object References (IDOR)**.
*   **Bad**: `GET /employees/123` (Attacker could change 123 to 124).
*   **Good**: `GET /me` (Server derives ID from the signed, tamper-proof JWT).

Commit message:

docs: Enhance module documentation with diagram explanations and critical index details, while removing outdated mermaid diagrams.

technical_documentation/02_MODULES/me/01_OVERVIEW.md, after:

# Me Module

| Attribute     | Details                                       |
| :------------ | :-------------------------------------------- |
| **Namespace** | `com.horaion.app.modules.me`                  |
| **Status**    | 🟢 Stable                                     |
| **Criticality** | **High** (Primary Context for Frontend)       |
| **Dependencies** | Auth, Employee, Department, Notification      |

## Executive Summary

The **Me Module** is the "Personal Context" layer of the application.

Instead of asking "Get details for Employee #123", the frontend simply asks "Who am I?". The Me Module interprets the authentication token, identifies the user, and returns their specific context (Profile, Permissions, Notifications, Assignments).

{% hint style="success" %}
**Tip / Success:**
**BFF Pattern**: This module acts as a "Backend for Frontend" aggregator. It stitches together data from 4-5 different services into a single, cohesive response optimized for the initial app load.
{% endhint %}

## Core Capabilities

1.  **Identity Resolution**: Securely mapping `Cognito SUB` -> `Employee ID`.
2.  **Context Aggregation**: Fetching Primary Department, Active Role, and Permissions in one go.
3.  **Self-Service**: Allow users to view their own Leave Requests and Notifications.

## Hierarchy & Data Flow

    MeController --> |Aggregate| Response[MeResponse]
```

> **Diagram Explanation**: This flowchart shows the **BFF (Backend for Frontend)** pattern in action. A single request to `/me` triggers a parallel scatter-gather operation. The Controller fetches the User's identity, their permissions, and their unread notifications, stitching them into a unified response for the client.

## Security Design

The primary goal of this module is to prevent **Insecure Direct Object References (IDOR)**.
*   **Bad**: `GET /employees/123` (Attacker could change 123 to 124).
*   **Good**: `GET /me` (Server derives ID from the signed, tamper-proof JWT).
