technical_documentation/02_MODULES/shift/01_OVERVIEW.md, before:

# Shift Module

| Attribute | Details |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Namespace** | `com.horaion.app.modules.shift` |
| **Status** | 🟢 Stable |
| **Criticality** | **High** (Core input for Schedule Generation) |
| **Dependencies** | Department, Employee (Role) |

## Executive Summary

The **Shift Module** is responsible for defining the **Templates of Work** within the organization. 

Crucially, in the Horaion platform, a "Shift" is a **Metadata Definition**, not an assignment. It represents a reusable block of time (e.g., "Standard Morning: 09:00 - 17:00") and the staffing requirements needed for that block.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Analogy Note:**
Think of the **Shift Module** as the **"Menu"** in a restaurant. It lists what is *available* to be scheduled (Morning Shift, Night Shift).
The **Schedule Module** is the **"Order"** (e.g., "John is working the Morning Shift on Monday").
{% endhint %}

### Core Capabilities
1.  **Shift Templating**: Define standard operating hours with visual cues (Color Codes).
2.  **Role Requirements**: Specify exactly *which* roles are needed.
    *   *Current Limitation*: The system currently defaults to **1 person per role** specified.
3.  **Day Applicability**: Tag shifts for specific days of the week (e.g., "Weekend Brunch Shift" only applies on Sat/Sun).
4.  **Department Scoping**: Shifts are strictly isolated by Department.

## Module Architecture

The Shift module sits between the organizational structure (Department) and the operational execution (Schedule).

```mermaid
graph TD
    Manager[Department Manager] --> |1. Defines| Shift[Shift Template]
    
    subgraph "Shift Definition"
        Shift --> |Time Window| Time[09:00 - 17:00]
        Shift --> |Visual| Color[#FF5733]
        Shift --> |Constraints| Days[Mon, Tue, Wed]
        
        Shift --> |Requires| RoleReqs{Role Requirements}
        RoleReqs --> |1x| Admin[Admin Role]
        RoleReqs --> |3x| User[User Role]
    end
    
    Shift -.-> |Input Data| Solver[Optimization Engine]
    Solver --> |Generates| Roster[Final Schedule]
```

## Key Interactions

### 1. Department Module (Upstream)
*   **Relationship**: **Strict Parent-Child**.
*   **Details**: Every Shift belongs to exactly one `Department`. Operations are always scoped via `/api/v1/departments/{departmentId}/shifts`.
*   **Cascade**: If a Department is deleted, its Shifts are likely cascaded (though usually soft-deleted in practice).

### 2. Employee Module (Lateral)
*   **Relationship**: **Reference**.
*   **Details**: Shifts define requirements based on `EmployeeRole` (via `ShiftRole` entity). It does *not* reference specific Employees, only their Roles.

### 3. Schedule Module (Downstream)
*   **Relationship**: **Dependency**.
*   **Details**: The Schedule module uses the list of Active Shifts to know what slots need to be filled by the optimization engine.

## Domain Model Summary

| Entity | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `Shift` | The root aggregate. Contains time, label, and metadata. |
| `ShiftRole` | A child entity defining "How many of Role X are needed". |
| `ShiftType` | Enum categorization (MORNING, NIGHT, etc.) used for reporting. |

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Important Implementation Detail:**
Shifts support **Soft Deletion**. When a user "deletes" a shift, `softDelete` is set to `true` and `isActive` to `false`. This preserves historical data for past schedules that may validly reference this now-deleted shift.
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

docs: Enhance technical documentation with diagram explanations and updated module architecture visuals.

technical_documentation/02_MODULES/shift/01_OVERVIEW.md, after:

# Shift Module

| Attribute | Details |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Namespace** | `com.horaion.app.modules.shift` |
| **Status** | 🟢 Stable |
| **Criticality** | **High** (Core input for Schedule Generation) |
| **Dependencies** | Department, Employee (Role) |

## Executive Summary

The **Shift Module** is responsible for defining the **Templates of Work** within the organization. 

Crucially, in the Horaion platform, a "Shift" is a **Metadata Definition**, not an assignment. It represents a reusable block of time (e.g., "Standard Morning: 09:00 - 17:00") and the staffing requirements needed for that block.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Analogy Note:**
Think of the **Shift Module** as the **"Menu"** in a restaurant. It lists what is *available* to be scheduled (Morning Shift, Night Shift).
The **Schedule Module** is the **"Order"** (e.g., "John is working the Morning Shift on Monday").
{% endhint %}

### Core Capabilities
1.  **Shift Templating**: Define standard operating hours with visual cues (Color Codes).
2.  **Role Requirements**: Specify exactly *which* roles are needed.
    *   *Current Limitation*: The system currently defaults to **1 person per role** specified.
3.  **Day Applicability**: Tag shifts for specific days of the week (e.g., "Weekend Brunch Shift" only applies on Sat/Sun).
4.  **Department Scoping**: Shifts are strictly isolated by Department.

## Module Architecture

The Shift module sits between the organizational structure (Department) and the operational execution (Schedule).

```mermaid
graph TD
    Manager[Department Manager] --> |1. Defines| Shift[Shift Template]
    
    subgraph "Shift Definition"
        Shift --> |Time Window| Time[09:00 - 17:00]
        Shift --> |Visual| Color[#FF5733]
        Shift --> |Constraints| Days[Mon, Tue, Wed]
        
        Shift --> |Requires| RoleReqs{Role Requirements}
        RoleReqs --> |1x| Admin[Admin Role]
        RoleReqs --> |3x| User[User Role]
    end
    
    Shift -.-> |Input Data| Solver[Optimization Engine]
    Solver --> |Generates| Roster[Final Schedule]
```

> **Diagram Explanation**: This flow shows the Shift Template as a **Blueprints** provider. The Manager defines the "Shapes" of the shifts (Time, Role Constraints) which act as input parameters for the Optimization Engine. The engine then tries to fit available employees into these pre-defined shapes.

## Key Interactions

### 1. Department Module (Upstream)
*   **Relationship**: **Strict Parent-Child**.
*   **Details**: Every Shift belongs to exactly one `Department`. Operations are always scoped via `/api/v1/departments/{departmentId}/shifts`.
*   **Cascade**: If a Department is deleted, its Shifts are likely cascaded (though usually soft-deleted in practice).

### 2. Employee Module (Lateral)
*   **Relationship**: **Reference**.
*   **Details**: Shifts define requirements based on `EmployeeRole` (via `ShiftRole` entity). It does *not* reference specific Employees, only their Roles.

### 3. Schedule Module (Downstream)
*   **Relationship**: **Dependency**.
*   **Details**: The Schedule module uses the list of Active Shifts to know what slots need to be filled by the optimization engine.

## Domain Model Summary

| Entity | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `Shift` | The root aggregate. Contains time, label, and metadata. |
| `ShiftRole` | A child entity defining "How many of Role X are needed". |
| `ShiftType` | Enum categorization (MORNING, NIGHT, etc.) used for reporting. |

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Important Implementation Detail:**
Shifts support **Soft Deletion**. When a user "deletes" a shift, `softDelete` is set to `true` and `isActive` to `false`. This preserves historical data for past schedules that may validly reference this now-deleted shift.
{% endhint %}
