technical_documentation/02_MODULES/shift/04_CONFIG.md, before:

# Shift Module Configuration

## Database Configuration

### Tables

1.  **`shifts`**: The main definition.
    *   `days_applied_to`: **Integer Array (`integer[]`)**.
        *   Stores the days of week (1=Mon, 7=Sun) this shift is valid for.
        *   *Advantage*: Array columns in Postgres allow extremely fast filtering (e.g., "Find all shifts valid on Mondays" -> `WHERE 1 = ANY(days_applied_to)`).

2.  **`shift_roles`**: The staffing requirements.
    *   Maps `shift_id` <-> `employee_role_id`.

### Indexes

| Index Name | Table | Column | Purpose |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `idx_shifts_department_id` | `shifts` | `department_id` | Partitioning shifts by department. |
| `uq_shift_label_per_department` | `shifts` | `department_id` + `label` | Enforcing unique names. |

## Application Properties

No specific properties required.

{% hint style="danger" %}
**Critical:**
**Hard Deletes**: Be careful with "Hard Deletes" on Shifts. If you hard-delete a shift template, you may break historical reporting for schedules that referenced it. Always use **Soft Delete** (`is_active = false`).
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

docs: Update Shift module technical documentation, detailing domain entities, validation rules, RBAC permissions, and database indexes.

technical_documentation/02_MODULES/shift/04_CONFIG.md, after:

# Configuration & Security

## Application Configuration

The Shift Module does not require specific entries in `application.yml` as it leverages the shared infrastructure (PostgreSQL, Security, Validator).

However, it relies on the Global Exception Handler for standardized error responses.

## Permissions (RBAC)

Access is controlled via the `Permit.io` integration. The following actions must be assigned to user roles for them to interact with this module.

| Resource | Action | Description | Typical Role |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `shift` | `read` | View shift templates | Manager, Employee, Admin |
| `shift` | `create` | Define new shifts | Manager, Admin |
| `shift` | `update` | Modify existing shifts | Manager, Admin |
| `shift` | `delete` | Soft-delete a shift | Manager, Admin |

{% hint style="info" %}
**Note:**
Permissions are implicitly scoped to the **Department**. A Manager with `read:shift` can only read shifts within their own Department(s).
{% endhint %}

## Database Indexes

To ensure performance during schedule generation (which queries shifts heavily), the following indexes are critical:

```sql
-- Filter by Department (Most common query)
CREATE INDEX idx_shifts_department_id ON shifts(department_id);

-- Filter by Type (Reporting)
CREATE INDEX idx_shifts_shift_type ON shifts(shift_type);

-- Soft Delete awareness (Optional but recommended for large datasets)
-- Note: The current `@Where(clause = "soft_delete = false")` handles this via Hibernate.
```
